docs: add colab column (#583)
jina-ai/finetuner: docs/notebooks/image_to_image.md

---
jupyter:
  jupytext:
    text_representation:
      extension: .md
      format_name: markdown
      format_version: '1.3'
      jupytext_version: 1.14.1
  kernelspec:
    display_name: Python 3
    name: python3
---

<!-- #region id="p8jc8EyfruKw" -->
# Image-to-Image Search via ResNet50

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1QuUTy3iVR-kTPljkwplKYaJ-NTCgPEc_?usp=sharing"><img alt="Open In Colab" src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg"></a>

> Searching visually similar images with image queries is a very popular use-case. However, using pre-trained models don’t deliver the best results – the models are trained on general data that lacks the particularities of your specific task. Here's where Finetuner comes! It enables you to accomplish this easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searching visually similar images with image queries is a very popular use-case. However, using pre-trained models does not deliver the best results – the models are trained on general data that lack the particularities of your specific task. Here's where Finetuner comes in! It enables you to accomplish this easily.
```

This guide will demonstrate how to fine-tune a ResNet model for image to image retrieval.

> *Note, please consider switch to GPU/TPU Runtime for faster inference.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note, please consider switching to GPU/TPU Runtime for faster inference.*
```

## Data

Our journey starts locally. We have to prepare the data and push it to the Jina AI Cloud and Finetuner will be able to get the dataset by its name. For this example,
we already prepared the data, and we'll provide the names of training data (`tll-train-da`) directly to Finetuner.

```{important} 
We don't require you to push data to the Jina AI Cloud by yourself. Instead of a name, you can provide a `DocumentArray` and Finetuner will do the job for you.
```

```{important}
When working with Document where images are stored locally, please call `doc.load_uri_to_image_tensor(width=224, height=224)` or another image shape to reduce network transmission and speed up training.
```
<!-- #endregion -->

```python id="L0NfPGbTkNsc"
import finetuner
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document

finetuner.notebook_login(force=True)
```

```python id="ONpXDwFBsqQS"
train_data = DocumentArray.pull('tll-train-da', show_progress=True)
query_data = DocumentArray.pull('tll-test-query-da', show_progress=True)
index_data = DocumentArray.pull('tll-test-index-da', show_progress=True)

train_data.summary()
```

<!-- #region id="mUoY1jq0klwk" -->
## Backbone model

> Now let's see which backbone models we can use. You can see available models either in by calling `finetuner.describe_models()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's see which backbone models we can use. You can see available models by calling `finetuner.describe_models()`.
```

For this example, we're gonna go with `resnet50`.
<!-- #endregion -->

<!-- #region id="xA7IIhIOk0h0" -->
## Fine-tuning

Now that we have the training and evaluation datasets loaded as `DocumentArray`s and selected our model, we can start our fine-tuning run.
<!-- #endregion -->

```python id="qGrHfz-2kVC7"
from finetuner.callback import EvaluationCallback

run = finetuner.fit(
    model='resnet50',
    train_data='tll-train-da',
    batch_size=128,
    epochs=5,
    learning_rate=1e-5,
    device='cuda',
    callbacks=[
        EvaluationCallback(
            query_data='tll-test-query-da',
            index_data='tll-test-index-da',
        )
    ],
)
```

<!-- #region id="9gvoWipMlG5P" -->
Let's understand what this piece of code does:

* As you can see, we have to provide the `model` which we picked before.
* We also set `run_name` and `description`, which are optional,
but recommended in order to retrieve your run easily and have some context about it.
* Furthermore, we had to provide names of the `train_data`.
* We set `TripletMarginLoss`.
* Additionally, we use {class}`~finetuner.callback.EvaluationCallback` for evaluation.

> * Lastly, we set number of `epochs` and provide a `learning_rate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Lastly, we set the number of `epochs` and provide a `learning_rate`.
```

<!-- #endregion -->

<!-- #region id="7ftSOH_olcak" -->
## Monitoring

> Now that we've created a run, let's see its status. You can monitor the run by checking the status - `run.status()`, the logs - `run.logs()` or `run.stream_logs()`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've created a run, let's see its status. You can monitor the run by checking the status - `run.status()` - and the logs - `run.logs()` or `run.stream_logs()`. 
```
